# Basket-Options-Pricing-Variance-Reduction-Techniques
This project explores different techniques based on simulations to price vanilla basket options and barrier options where there is no exact price formula and therefore simulations are vital. We assume that the underlying dynamics of the stocks mkaing up a basket are correlated geometric brownian motions. We then perform the respective Cholesky decomposition to simulate path trajectories (vectorizing the code) and estimate the price by taking a sample mean of the basket payoff discounted to todays price, based on the given interest rate. Aside from this naive crude Monte Carlo simulation of the underlying assets, we learned how to devise more efficient simulation algorithms which use statistical principles to ensure more efficient estimations by guaranteeing the same accuracy with way less simulations needed. In particular, we explore and implement several variance reduction techniques, such as special type of control variates we read about on research papers (like the Pezzirelli control variates) from which we also found an unknown flaw. We also use antithetic variables and even combined both when possible. On the other hand, we learned about more exotic derivatives like barrier options, where we studied the rate of convergence of Euler Maruyama (which we learned that is really slow : order of 1/2) and see how the insights from the Oxford lectures of Mike Giles on Brownian Bridge technique helps speed up the convergence up to order 1. This final part also gave us deeper understanding and made us realise that the nummerical approximation of stochastic differential equations become require more sophisticated treatment in the design of methods which have fast enough convergence rates, as in this systems, the source of error is twofold, one coming from the discretization of the SDE (bias error) and another coming from the estimator of the mean (monte carlo error). Check out the details on the pdf on this repository to find more about the solutions to each problem and detailed solutions.  
